P a g e | 16
Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince – J.K. Rowling
“They did,” said Fudge wearily. “But not anymore.
They’ve deserted the prison and joined He-Who-MustNot-Be-Named. I won’t pretend that wasn’t a blow.”
“But,” said the Prime Minister, with a sense of
dawning horror, “didn’t you tell me they’re the
creatures that drain hope and happiness out of
people?”
“That’s right. And they’re breeding. That’s what’s
causing all this mist.”
The Prime Minister sank, weak-kneed, into the
nearest chair. The idea of invisible creatures swooping
through the towns and countryside, spreading
despair and hopelessness in his voters, made him feel
quite faint.
“Now see here, Fudge — you’ve got to do something!
It’s your responsibility as Minister of Magic!”
“My dear Prime Minister, you can’t honestly think I’m
still Minister of Magic after all this? I was sacked

three days ago! The whole Wizarding community has
been screaming for my resignation for a fortnight. I’ve
never known them so united in my whole term of
office!” said Fudge, with a brave attempt at a smile.
The Prime Minister was momentarily lost for words.
Despite his indignation at the position into which he
had been placed, he still rather felt for the shrunkenlooking man sitting opposite him.
“I’m very sorry,” he said finally. “If there’s anything I
can do?”
“It’s very kind of you, Prime Minister, but there is
nothing. I was sent here tonight to bring you up to
date on recent events and to introduce you to my
P a g e | 17
Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince – J.K. Rowling
successor. I rather thought he’d be here by now, but of course, he’s very
busy at the moment, with so
much going on.”
Fudge looked around at the portrait of the ugly little
man wearing the long curly silver wig, who was
digging in his ear with the point of a quill. Catching

Fudge’s eye, the portrait said, “He’ll be here in a
moment, he’s just finishing a letter to Dumbledore.”
“I wish him luck,” said Fudge, sounding bitter for the
first time. “I’ve been writing to Dumbledore twice a
day for the past fortnight, but he won’t budge. If he’d
just been prepared to persuade the boy, I might still
be … Well, maybe Scrimgeour will have more
success.”
Fudge subsided into what was clearly an aggrieved
silence, but it was broken almost immediately by the
portrait, which suddenly spoke in its crisp, official
voice.
“To the Prime Minister of Muggles. Requesting a
meeting. Urgent. Kindly respond immediately. Rufus
Scrimgeour, Minister of Magic.”
“Yes, yes, fine,” said the Prime Minister distractedly,
and he barely flinched as the flames in the grate
turned emerald green again, rose up, and revealed a
second spinning wizard in their heart, disgorging him
moments later onto the antique rug.

Fudge got to his feet and, after a moment’s hesitation,
the Prime Minister did the same, watching the new
arrival straighten up, dust down his long black robes,
and look around.
The Prime Minister’s first, foolish thought was that
Rufus Scrimgeour looked rather like an old lion.
P a g e | 18
Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince – J.K. Rowling
There were streaks of gray in his mane of tawny hair and his bushy
eyebrows; he had keen yellowish eyes
behind a pair of wire-rimmed spectacles and a certain
rangy, loping grace even though he walked with a
slight limp. There was an immediate impression of
shrewdness and toughness; the Prime Minister
thought he understood why the Wizarding community
preferred Scrimgeour to Fudge as a leader in these
dangerous times.
“How do you do?” said the Prime Minister politely,
holding out his hand.
Scrimgeour grasped it briefly, his eyes scanning the
room, then pulled out a wand from under his robes.

“Fudge told you everything?” he asked, striding over
to the door and tapping the keyhole with his wand.
The Prime Minister heard the lock click.
“Er — yes,” said the Prime Minister. “And if you don’t
mind, I’d rather that door remained unlocked.”
“I’d rather not be interrupted,” said Scrimgeour
shortly, “or watched,” he added, pointing his wand at
the windows, so that the curtains swept across them.
“Right, well, I’m a busy man, so let’s get down to
business. First of all, we need to discuss your
security.”
The Prime Minister drew himself up to his fullest
height and replied, “I am perfectly happy with the
security I’ve already got, thank you very —”
“Well, we’re not,” Scrimgeour cut in. “It’ll be a poor
lookout for the Muggles if their Prime Minister gets
put under the Imperius Curse. The new secretary in
your outer office —”
P a g e | 19
Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince – J.K. Rowling

“I’m not getting rid of Kingsley Shacklebolt, if that’s what you’re
suggesting!” said the Prime Minister
hotly. “He’s highly efficient, gets through twice the
work the rest of them —”
“That’s because he’s a wizard,” said Scrimgeour,
without a flicker of a smile. “A highly trained Auror,
who has been assigned to you for your protection.”
“Now, wait a moment!” declared the Prime Minister.
“You can’t just put your people into my office, I decide
who works for me —”
“I thought you were happy with Shacklebolt?” said
Scrimgeour coldly.
“I am — that’s to say, I was —”
“Then there’s no problem, is there?” said Scrimgeour.
“I … well, as long as Shacklebolt’s work continues to
be … er … excellent,” said the Prime Minister lamely,
but Scrimgeour barely seemed to hear him.
“Now, about Herbert Chorley, your Junior Minister,”
he continued. “The one who has been entertaining the
public by impersonating a duck.”
“What about him?” asked the Prime Minister.

“He has clearly reacted to a poorly performed
Imperius Curse,” said Scrimgeour. “It’s addled his
brains, but he could still be dangerous.”
“He’s only quacking!” said the Prime Minister weakly.
“Surely a bit of a rest … Maybe go easy on the drink
…”
P a g e | 20
Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince – J.K. Rowling
“A team of Healers from St. Mungo’s Hospital for
Magical Maladies and Injuries are examining him as
we speak. So far he has attempted to strangle three of
them,” said Scrimgeour. “I think it best that we
remove him from Muggle society for a while.”
“I … well … He’ll be all right, won’t he?” said the
Prime Minister anxiously.
Scrimgeour merely shrugged, already moving back
toward the fireplace.
“Well, that’s really all I had to say. I will keep you
posted of developments, Prime Minister — or, at least,
I shall probably be too busy to come personally, in

which case I shall send Fudge here. He has consented
to stay on in an advisory capacity.”
Fudge attempted to smile, but was unsuccessful; he
merely looked as though he had a toothache.
Scrimgeour was already rummaging in his pocket for
the mysterious powder that turned the fire green. The
Prime Minister gazed hopelessly at the pair of them
for a moment, then the words he had fought to
suppress all evening burst from him at last.
“But for heaven’s sake — you’re wizards! You can do
magic! Surely you can sort out — well — anything!”
Scrimgeour turned slowly on the spot and exchanged
an incredulous look with Fudge, who really did
manage a smile this time as he said kindly, “The
trouble is, the other side can do magic too, Prime
Minister.”
And with that, the two wizards stepped one after the
other into the bright green fire and vanished.
P a g e | 21
Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince – J.K. Rowling

SPINNER’S END
Many miles away the chilly mist that had pressed
against the Prime Minister’s windows drifted over a
dirty river that wound between overgrown, rubbishstrewn banks. An immense chimney, relic of a
disused mill, reared up, shadowy and ominous. There
was no sound apart from the whisper of the black
water and no sign of life apart from a scrawny fox that
had slunk down the bank to nose hopefully at some
old fish-and-chip wrappings in the tall grass.
But then, with a very faint pop, a slim, hooded figure
appeared out of thin air on the edge of the river. The
fox froze, wary eyes fixed upon this strange new
phenomenon. The figure seemed to take its bearings

for a few moments, then set off with light, quick
strides, its long cloak rustling over the grass.
With a second and louder pop, another hooded figure
materialized.
“Wait!”
P a g e | 22
Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince – J.K. Rowling
The harsh cry startled the fox, now crouching almost flat in the
undergrowth. It leapt from its hiding place
and up the bank. There was a flash of green light, a
yelp, and the fox fell back to the ground, dead.
The second figure turned over the animal with its toe.
“Just a fox,” said a woman’s voice dismissively from
under the hood. “I thought perhaps an Auror —
Cissy, wait!”
But her quarry, who had paused and looked back at
the flash of light, was already scrambling up the bank
the fox had just fallen down.
“Cissy — Narcissa — listen to me —”
The second woman caught the first and seized her
arm, but the other wrenched it away.

